Of "Never-nevermore."'
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
The Raven - Edgar Allan Poe (published 1845)
Till I scarcely more than muttered `Other friends have flown before -

This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
But the raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only,

On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o'er,
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking

But the silence was unbroken, and the darkness gave no token,
And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore -
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
`Sir,' said I, `or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
'Tis the wind and nothing more!'


Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore,

On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before.'
Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore -
Eagerly I wished the morrow; - vainly I had sought to borrow
`Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!
On this home by horror haunted - tell me truly, I implore -
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,

Thrilled me - filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
Bird or beast above the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
`Surely,' said I, `surely that is something at my window lattice;
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird and bust and door;
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.



Quoth the raven, `Nevermore.'
Leave my loneliness unbroken! - quit the bust above my door!
Till the dirges of his hope that melancholy burden bore
To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core;
Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door -
Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted -

Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door; -
Ghastly grim and ancient raven wandering from the nightly shore -
But the raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling,
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December,
Shall be lifted - nevermore!
With such name as `Nevermore.'
That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!'
And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting

Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
`Doubtless,' said I, `what it utters is its only stock and store,
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, `Lenore!'
Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door -
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore; -
That I scarce was sure I heard you' - here I opened wide the door; -
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore -
Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
In there stepped a stately raven of the saintly days of yore.
Is there - is there balm in Gilead? - tell me - tell me, I implore!'

Quoth the raven, `Nevermore.'
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,


From my books surcease of sorrow - sorrow for the lost Lenore -
Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
Merely this and nothing more.
`Prophet!' said I, `thing of evil! - prophet still, if bird or devil! -
And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
Meant in croaking `Nevermore.'
`Wretch,' I cried, `thy God hath lent thee - by these angels he has sent thee
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe, and forget this lost Lenore!'

`Prophet!' said I, `thing of evil! - prophet still, if bird or devil!
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered weak and weary,
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, `Lenore!'
By that Heaven that bends above us - by that God we both adore -
Perched, and sat, and nothing more.

Though its answer little meaning - little relevancy bore;
Then the bird said, `Nevermore.'
Nameless here for evermore.
But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
Nothing further then he uttered - not a feather then he fluttered -
Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
She shall press, ah, nevermore!
Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
This it is, and nothing more,'
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore -
Quoth the raven, `Nevermore.'
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;
Quoth the raven, `Nevermore.'
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden, whom the angels name Lenore?'
`Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!' I shrieked upstarting -
Respite - respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!

Only this, and nothing more.'
But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door -
`'Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door -
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
But whose velvet violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o'er,
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming,
Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
Quoth the raven, `Nevermore.'
Whether tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
Let me see then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore -
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful disaster
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore!'
And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
Darkness there, and nothing more.
`Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,' I said, `art sure no craven.
`'Tis some visitor,' I muttered, `tapping at my chamber door -
